Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear Dharma friends and
Buddhist practitioners in our Golden Club,
we have organized a practice session to prepare
for our work, which is to pray
for the souls of our deceased
relatives and parents.
We have recited the sutra of Venerable Sariputta saving his past life mother and the sutra of
Venerable Maudgalyayana saving his mother. Dear
Dharma friends, the fact that a
Buddhist disciple often saves their deceased parents, whether in
this life or many
previous lives, is deeply ingrained in
every Buddhist disciple, isn't it?
We often see that
ordinary people make offerings to the Three
Jewels to pray for the souls of their deceased
parents and relatives. But in
these two sutras, we see
Venerable Sariputta and Maudgalyayana making offerings to the
Three Jewels to save their mothers. Dear Dharma friends, Venerable Sariputta
is a saintly monk, the foremost in
wisdom.  The Buddha
praised Sariputta's wisdom
as follows: Sariputta fully absorbed the profound teachings of the Buddha and was the first to propagate them in the North. This is Sariputta's merit; that is, Sariputta's wisdom
fully absorbed the profound teachings
of the Buddha and went to propagate the
Buddha's teachings in the North, being the
first. Sariputta's
wisdom is truly supreme,
unmatched by any other Buddha. That is,
among the holy monks and disciples of the
Buddha,
Sariputta's wisdom is the highest. Through this wisdom, Sariputta
achieved great enlightenment, realizing the nature of the Dharma: having few desires, knowing
contentment, being diligent and courageous, cultivating meditation, engaging in debates
with other religions without hindrance,
propagating the true Dharma, benefiting all beings, freeing them from the suffering of
birth and death, and entering Nirvana.
That is about Sariputta's wisdom.
As for Venerable Moggallana,
we recite in the sutra that he
also went to rescue his mother.  He was a holy monk,
but also the foremost in supernatural powers, dear fellow
practitioners. In this sutra,
his supernatural powers are described like this:
just hearing about them makes us want to
practice Buddhism, dear fellow practitioners.
We haven't yet
experienced wisdom, but everyone
desires supernatural powers, don't they, dear fellow practitioners?
His supernatural powers are like this: In the
dialogue where Venerable
Moggallana addressed the Buddha, there was a passage about his supernatural
powers. The
Buddha looked out at the mountain garden, pointed to a
green leaf that had been damaged by insects, and
said, "Do you see
that damaged leaf?" Venerable Moggallana replied, "Yes, I
see it." The Buddha then asked, "
That leaf was green; can you use your mental power
to make it yellow?" Venerable
Moggallana replied, "Yes, I can." Venerable
Moggallana only needed to focus his gaze for a split second, and the
green leaf
instantly turned yellow. That is the
power of the mind of a person who has attained
Arhatship and possesses
such powerful supernatural abilities. And what about our minds that we might want to?
Sometimes, things get the
opposite, and it's even more painful, isn't it?
What do you all want? That's right, focusing the mind towards what we
want. Here, we see that
whatever we want, we focus our minds on it.
This is also a
form of focusing the mind that we all know about,
but our mind focus lacks
power. The mind focus of the holy monks
has the power to act according to their will.
Our will, however, is
still subject to the law of cause and effect; it
doesn't always go according to our wishes. Mindfulness
meditation... please continue reading. The Buddha calmly
said, "The power of the mind to turn green leaves
yellow is a small matter, too small.
As you remember, it wasn't you, but
your disciple, the monk Pinola, who used his
power to lift a huge rock, taller than a house, and fly around Rajagriha three times to retrieve the bright red sandalwood bowl of the millionaire. That power is greater,
son." This means the Buddha praised the
miraculous power of
Moggallana,
his disciple, who
lifted a rock taller than
a house, causing it to turn...  The rock flies around
the royal city. For example, it flies around
our city. That is the
psychic power of the enlightened ones, my esteemed friends.
MC
Kieu Lien answered, "That's right, indeed. The disciple
only needs to focus the mind into the fourth meditative absorption,
descending to the proximate action, establishing and
solidifying the thought, and then he can lift even
Mount Sumeru." Venerable Buddha, I respectfully ask you, my esteemed
friends, regarding the fourth meditative absorption,
we have heard our master explain it
a few times, that is, a brief explanation of the four meditative absorptions. The first meditative absorption has initial and final stages. The second meditative absorption is the cessation of initial and final stages. The
third meditative absorption is the relinquishing of thoughts and the attainment of joy. The fourth meditative absorption is the relinquishing of suffering, the
relinquishing of thoughts, and the attainment of
purity. Let's just know the
theory for now. My
esteemed friends, here,
he enters the fourth meditative absorption. When he enters the
fourth meditative absorption, he descends to the proximate action, meaning he
lets his mind descend to the proximate action. Proximate action means going
to the arising of the mind. The arising of the
mind is called descending to the proximate action. When
he descends to the proximate action, he initiates the
thought and establishes the thought, and then he can lift
even a mountain.  The Venerable Buddha said, "Here,
the mind is focused on the cycle of contemplation. Let's take an example: let's say
we are now
completely still. This is called entering the Fourth
Dhyana, but that's the theory. It does
n't mean we've entered the Fourth Dhyana
completely, letting go of pleasure, suffering, and thoughts, becoming pure and tranquil.
Then, the mind enters the realm of proximate
action and begins to generate thoughts. For
example, when we sit, we
generate a thought—that is, the
desire for this flower to fly up. Then we focus on
this single thought, making
it unique, without a second thought.
Furthermore, we solidify this thought, making
our mind focused and firm.
Then, the Venerable Buddha uses
his powerful thought—he
can lift Mount Sumeru. But when
we generate the thought, the desire for
this flower to fly up, while
focusing on the thought, the mass of distracting thoughts is
already gone.
If we can't focus on the thought,
how can we solidify it? Because only those who practice
meditation can solidify their
thoughts, right?"  That desire is the
initial thought, the desire for
this flower to fly
up. Naturally, another thought suddenly arises, that of
giving love, meaning other thoughts
enter, so we don't focus on the thought. This thought
has already begun, this thought is solidified, this thought is made firm.
After this thought, we use our
minds to lift this flower
up. We share this with each other
so we understand how the masters do it,
so
we can see the value of meditation practice. Do you understand clearly, dear friends? As for the first stage of meditation, it's the practice of having insight and contemplation, that is, having contemplative thinking. Dear friends, you have analyzed this, so we are practicing
meditation during this three-month retreat. We should diligently practice
until our thinking
reaches
a state of single-mindedness. When we have single-mindedness,
we see everything
behind that thought. That is, when
a little wisdom arises, the
beginning of our joy
begins to arise. When joy
arises...  So, we call this
entering the first stage of meditation, dear fellow practitioners.
Therefore, our practice like
this is not useless, dear fellow
practitioners. It's very beneficial during
our three months of practicing Vipassana meditation.
This is the theory; we can't even
begin to reach this point. Let's just
understand it this way for now, but it's still the
correct understanding, dear fellow practitioners, understood? The
masters' thoughts are entirely pure,
so they can lift Mount
Sumeru. But our thoughts are entirely greedy, angry, and loving.
Those thoughts only drag us into the
pit of karma; there
's no pure thought there, is there,
dear fellow practitioners? To
have such thoughts, we must have
thoughts that replace purity. Dear fellow
practitioners, Venerable Moggallana had
such supernatural powers,
do you see? So, the two holy monks,
one is the foremost in wisdom,
praised by the Buddha, and the other is the
foremost in supernatural powers, Venerable
Moggallana, whom we just heard about and described as having such
abilities.  With such immense power and
supernatural abilities, both of them
in this sutra had to resort to
offerings to pray for their mother's liberation.
Dear Dharma friends, here, I, with my mindful
contemplation, share a little about praying for liberation.
We already have some knowledge, but I, with my mindful
contemplation, would like to reiterate that "praying for liberation" is
the desire of one's heart. "Transcendence" means moving
from one place to another,
escaping from the realm of the hungry ghosts to the
heavenly realm, escaping from the realm of the hungry ghosts to the human realm,
escaping from the suffering of the hungry ghosts to the realm of becoming a god or an immortal,
escaping from the suffering of the hungry ghosts to a
less suffering realm. That is, "
transcendence" means moving away. Do you understand, dear Dharma friends? We pray for the deceased, who is in the realm of the hungry ghosts, to leave that suffering place and go to a better place. That is called praying for liberation. And if we want
our wishes to
come true, we must
follow the Buddha's teachings. Do you understand this, dear Dharma friends?
Here, I, with my mindful contemplation, would like to
share about these two sutras.
Venerable Sariputta had a mother...
Five lifetimes ago,
five
lifetimes before your time, your mother,
while still alive, created
such experiences. The mind of the Ha
Quan (a Buddhist scripture) recounts that in the sutra, at that time
in Varanasi, there was a wealthy Brahmin
who was a great benefactor. He gave alms to the monks,
Brahmins, poor people, wandering ascetics, and female beggars. He managed
his life and gave
alms according to the opportunity, providing
all the necessary things for travelers on their
long journeys. That is, in ancient times,
in the city of Rajagriha, there was a
Brahmin who often gave alms to
all those who came to beg, so that they
could afford
their long journeys. He gave
everything he could. He often reminded his wife not to
forget this act of giving alms, that she must diligently take
care of it. The act of giving was predetermined;
this Brahmin always reminded
his wife not to forget
this act of giving alms, but to diligently take care of it.
His wife agreed, but when he passed away, she
immediately reduced the custom of offering alms to the monks.
That is, when he left, she
immediately cut back on the custom of offering alms. And
here, it also means that when he passed away, even if
he died,
she reduced the family's alms-giving customs. The
family's fate had already been decided by her
husband, so she cut back on
all the alms-giving to the monks.
Furthermore, regarding the female guests who came seeking
shelter, she pointed to the dilapidated, abandoned hut
behind the house and told them to stay
there. When the wandering ascetics came to get food,
water, and other things, she would often
curse each person, saying, "
Eat
feces, drink urine, drink blood,
eat your mother's brains!" She was so wicked, she even
cursed like that! That was while
she was still alive, with such thoughts and intentions. Therefore,
after her death and rebirth, she became a female
ghost, dear fellow practitioners.  And this female demon
suffered such torment in many
reincarnations in the realm of
hungry ghosts, constantly tormented by things like vomit, foaming at the
mouth, snot, saliva,
phlegm, and grease. She had to eat the blood of
burnt corpses, the blood of pregnant women, the blood flowing
from wounds or from
severed noses—anything unclean in men and women.
She had to eat the blood
of all creatures, including the blood and pus of
humans. She had no home, no dwelling, and was made a
black bed in the middle of a graveyard.
That
is her dwelling place as a female demon with no place to stay. As for
her food, she ate all the
filthy things, the pus and blood of humans, human feces and
phlegm, even the blood
of women,
blood from being sawed, cut, or
injured—all those foul-smelling things.
She could only eat
those things, it was very miserable.  Therefore,
dear fellow practitioners, you see the karmic consequences of this story are very
painful. With a clear mind, I would like to
move on to the mother of Venerable Moggallana,
Mrs. Moggallana Thanh De. Let's see
how she created karma
in the sutra where Venerable Moggallana saves his
mother.
She created such karma on days of fasting,
refusing to observe the precepts. Instead, she
ruthlessly killed animals, choosing only the tastiest to eat and discarding the
rest. She also engaged in usury, engaging in
predatory lending and double-dealing, constantly exploiting
people. She also
extorted from others without
hesitation, using any deceitful means, and was stingy and miserly towards
those who lived with her. She was
always malicious and spiteful, only knowing how to take and never giving.
Even a spoonful of rice, a spoonful of porridge, a piece of clothing, a penny, or a
dime for the poor and
needy, and Venerable Moggallana advised her,
but she did not listen. The sutra says this: she
lost money
countless times. I have advised her, Mother, to
have true faith, to control her
anger, to have a loving heart for
people and animals, and to be generous in helping others.  She helped
her relatives and family, but all
her efforts were in vain. She created
such karma. And in
some other scriptures, it is said that she even
drove us away. Of course, she had such wrong views.
She also worshipped and sacrificed
by killing living beings,
so she despised and
drove away the monks. Therefore, the karma
she created was very heavy. This is the
retribution for her actions. Please read the
retribution after death: she was reborn as a hungry ghost.
But this hungry ghost is the
most suffering, it is near hell, dear fellow
practitioners. Please read again the
scripture passage where she was reborn near the border of hell,
in a damp, dark, cold place,
but not belonging to any realm.
However, upon observation, it
is not the Frozen Hell or the Fiery Hell,
because the Frozen or Fiery Hells would cause
more horrific torture. Moreover, in
that place, her body is a
dry, green skeleton. It looks as if she has been starving for
hundreds or thousands of years, meaning she suffered like that,
starving like that.  So, that's how much suffering she endured, and she
suffered this karmic retribution. When
Venerable Moggallana used his supernatural powers to find his mother and saw her
suffering so much,
he did this: seeing his mother so hungry and thirsty, he could
n't bear it. His disciple used his
supernatural powers to give her some rice and bread, but the
first time the rice and
bread turned into burning coals, and the second time it turned into
blocks of ice. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners,
Lady Thanh De, because she created such evil karma,
when she died she fell into
the realm between hell and hungry ghosts, a realm of
extreme suffering and hunger. So he went to
beg for rice and water for his mother, but when he brought the rice and water
to her, it
turned into burning coals and blocks of ice. Therefore, it's
not that we can simply offer food
to the
dead and expect to receive it. There are hungry ghosts who don't receive it. Respectfully, dear fellow
practitioners, let's move on
to the next part...  Regarding the story of the two
venerable monks, Sariputta saved his mother
in this way. A venerable ghost, who was his mother in a previous life,
saw this and, overwhelmed with grief, sought
out Sariputta. The
local deity, seeing this ghost approaching
Sariputta, refused to let her in. The
ghost then claimed to be Sariputta
's mother from five lifetimes ago.
Therefore, the local deity allowed the
ghost to enter. Due to this karmic connection,
Maudgalyayana, seeing this, went to
King Bimbisara and asked him to build four meditation
chambers with all the necessary furnishings for the
monks to practice in. He then offered these four
chambers to
Sariputta. Sariputta used these four
chambers, meaning that when King Bimbisara offered them to
Sariputta, they
belonged to Sariputta.
Do you understand, dear fellow practitioners? So, Sariputta...  Sariputta
used those four huts to offer to the Sangha of the
Ten Directions. That is, all
monks who come there to practice are welcome. Do you
understand this, dear friends? Because monks
usually stay in the huts for three months during the rainy season retreat
in
that forest. Each monk has a
hut, for example, or they sleep
under trees, depending on the situation. After the three-month
retreat, they move to
another retreat area for the next one. That's why it's called
offering to the Sangha
of the Ten Directions, under the leadership of
Shakyamuni Buddha. That is, the entire
Sangha, whoever wants to come there to practice, can come. They can come during
this retreat,
then come back for the next one. That's
called offering to the Sangha of the Ten Directions.
Do you understand? Then, the
merit of this offering, the
blessings generated from
this offering, are dedicated to the mother,
that female ghost.  So, after
receiving that merit, the mother, who was a
female ghost, was reborn as a
celestial being, a celestial maiden, in the
heavenly realm. She enjoyed
beauty, clothing, food, and shelter—you
see, dear fellow practitioners?
Therefore, the merit from building
these four meditation rooms as offerings is immense.
Now, let's
calculate how much those four rooms cost, right? They
are fully equipped
for a practitioner of the Fourfold Path, so it's very
expensive. Now, let's calculate how much a room costs—hundreds of millions of Vietnamese dong, right? Even a
small room, about
10 or 15 square meters, costs hundreds of millions of dong, right?
Four rooms cost at least 400-500
million dong, right? Then,
offering them to the Ten Directions Sangha and
dedicating the merit to a departed soul. That
's how this soul is reborn in the heavenly realm.
So, here, if anyone's parents pass away and the
family is well-off, we should make offerings of the
Fourfold Path to the Sangha.  If you build a temple, it's probably
just one of your parents' spirits, and they will reach
a good realm. I don't know if
building a temple is enough; I don't
know if it's a deep ritual, but I'm just guessing.
That's what the wisest
Sariputta did to pray
for his mother's liberation from the realm of suffering
ghosts, eating feces and
urine, and becoming a celestial maiden. Now, let's
move on to the way the holy monk Moggallana saved his mother. The
Buddha taught this: The Buddha taught
that the rainy season retreat is almost over.
Currently, there are three monks in the monastery.
If his relatives and family are
able to offer alms to three thousand monks
on the day of the Self-Reflection, after the monks
receive the alms, they will pray for
pure merit to come to his mother through the purity of the offerings, the purity of
body, speech, and mind
of the monk and his relatives, and the
pure merit of the three holy
monks and ordinary people. After three months of the rainy season retreat,
his mother will certainly be liberated.
We need three reasons to
fully understand this.  A soul is liberated
thanks to three factors: firstly, the pure offerings;
secondly, the sincere faith of the
donor; and thirdly, the power of the prayers and
blessings of the pure-practicing Sangha
after receiving the blessings.
Do you see, dear fellow practitioners? These are
the three conditions that allow us to pray for the liberation of a deceased soul. Do you understand this point clearly? It includes a large number of monks, offerings (the four necessities), and
secondly, a pure and
sincere faith in the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma,
Sangha) that allows us to make offerings.
Through these two sutras, we see that
to pray for the liberation of the deceased, one must offer pure
offerings to the Sangha with
appropriate gifts suitable for the monks' practice,
fulfilling the Fourfold Path. After
receiving the
offerings, the monks then offer the merit. Do you
agree, Venerable Friends? That's how offerings are made.
Both of these offerings by the two
holy monks
are material offerings, the Fourfold Path. Do you
agree, Venerable Friends? They are both
material offerings. Here,
we might wonder why holy monks
still pray for their parents' liberation.
Why not offer a prayer for their parents'
liberation? That's
not the truth. The Buddha only spoke the
truth. Do you understand this, Venerable Friends?
The Buddha only spoke the truth. Holy monks,
using their power of practice,
can dedicate merit to
all sentient beings equally, when
sentient beings have the same offerings and the same intention. Do you
understand
this point? A holy monk
cannot offer a prayer for his mother's
liberation.  In this sutra, the Buddha
teaches this: "Mind control and contemplation." Please read the entire
sutra so we can understand the meaning
behind the power of Venerable Moggallana. Venerable Moggallana
replied to the Buddha, "The
disciple only needs to focus his mind into
concentration, descending to the Fourth Dhyana, and then, through contemplation and mantra
formation, solidify the contemplation, and he can
lift Mount Sumeru." The Buddha
replied, "Yes, that is true. The Tathagata knows that
your mental power is even more supreme than that."
Venerable Moggallana then replied, "But even with
that supernatural power, I
cannot save my mother." The Buddha said, "
Why? Why can't you save your mother? Do you
know? Your mother's place is called the
border of hell. It is not within the eight
great colds, nor within the eight great fires.
Your mother belongs to the Hellfire, the
fire of hungry ghosts, so you don't know
which realm it is. Why? Why can't you
save her? Do you know?" Venerable Moggallana
replied, "That power can
transform matter, but it cannot transform
karma. The supernatural power of Venerable
Moggallana can transform
matter, but it cannot transform the
power of a person."  For a being to
transform the energy of another
being, that being must have
two complete conditions: the offering must be given
to the Sangha, and the Sangha must offer prayers and blessings
upon the merit of that offering, generating a
kind of merit that is then
dedicated to the deceased's liberation. Do you understand this clearly?
Supernatural power alone
can only lift Mount Sumeru, make a
green or yellow slingshot, and many more,
but it cannot transform karma
from unwholesome to wholesome. Even the
supernatural powers of the holy monks
cannot transform the
unwholesome karma of a being to make it
wholesome; they cannot transform it. Do
you understand this clearly? The
Sangha has the power to transform the
karma of beings when the following conditions are met:
firstly, there is an offering;
secondly, the Sangha receives it and offers
prayers. Having received and dedicated
the merit of this offering to the
donor, and the donor then dedicates
this merit to the
deceased, who will then attain liberation. That is the ultimate set of
conditions.  Dear fellow practitioners, do you
agree? The karmic connections of the offering, the karmic connections
of the recipient, the karmic connections of the
giver dedicating the merit to the deceased, and the karmic connections of the
monks chanting prayers—these blessings reach the deceased, allowing them to be liberated from suffering to a place of peace, happiness, and less suffering. Therefore,
these two sets of karmic connections are different.
The karmic connections of an Arhat, who has attained
supernatural powers, can only transfer
material things. They
cannot transfer karma to others.
That karmic connection alone is insufficient; there must be
other karmic connections within the power of the
holy monk, and then there are even more
karmic connections to
enable the soul to be
liberated. For example, when
we cook a pot of plain rice porridge, we
only need these karmic connections: rice,
water, incense, fire, and a cook—those are
five karmic connections, right? But if we
want to cook a pot of mushroom porridge, we
need another karmic connection: mushrooms,
right? If we don't have the
karmic connection of mushrooms, it's just
plain rice porridge. Similarly, the power...  All the
holy monks possess this ability, but that
power only exists within the realm of karmic conditions—the ability to
transform matter, to transform
everything. To transform the karma
of sentient beings, one must possess that power—the
power of a holy monk, the power of an ordinary monk, the power of
diligent practice and strict adherence to the precepts. This requires additional
karmic conditions: firstly, the presence of a
faithful person; secondly, the
faithful person making offerings;
thirdly, the faithful person
offering and wishing to pray and dedicate the merit to the deceased; fourthly, the
acceptance by the monks; and fifthly, the
acceptance and dedication by the monks
to the deceased. Only then can the
result be achieved: the
liberation of the deceased. Dear fellow practitioners, do you understand?
Therefore, dear fellow practitioners,
we study Buddhism to attain enlightenment, to know the
truth. Therefore, through this week of suffering and
through these sutras, we
eliminate erroneous views regarding the pursuit of
liberation. If we still hold onto these erroneous views,
we remain trapped in delusion, still lacking wisdom,
still suffering from ignorance. Please understand clearly.
No, some Buddhist practitioners
say that the Buddha didn't teach the practice of praying for the deceased.
That's because they don't know. Dear fellow
practitioners, you see that the practice of praying for the deceased exists, right? It's
not that the Buddha didn't teach it, but that the Buddha did teach it,
right? That's a wrong view
regarding the practice of praying for the deceased. To say that
there is no such thing as praying for the deceased in Buddhism, and that the
Buddha wouldn't pray for the deceased, is a
wrong view. Furthermore, to
gather together and chant the
Buddha's name, forming a single entity, a kind of
power, to push the deceased's spirit
to the Western Paradise, that is, to help the
deceased be reborn in the Western Paradise. Even the
saintly monks with their
full supernatural powers, their full purity, and their full filial piety
couldn't transform the
karmic force of a sentient being, right?
So how can all of us ordinary people,
chanting the Buddha's name together, not to mention the lingering thoughts,
change the karmic
force of a sentient being? That belongs to a very
serious wrong view, dear fellow practitioners. It's very
serious, very serious. Therefore, we must
practice and let go of it.  This heavy erroneous view
can break through this ignorance,
a small part of it. Ignorance
is caused by erroneous views; by breaking through this erroneous view,
we can break
through that part of ignorance, dear fellow practitioners.
Then there's the view that inviting
monks to chant scriptures is wrong. Some families invite
monks to chant scriptures, and then they see
strange phenomena in their house, and they say
that their mother has been reborn in the Western Paradise
because of the monks' chanting. That's wrong.
Strange phenomena are normal for ghosts; they can create
many sounds and lights.
They can
create flashes of blue, yellow, red, white light,
whatever they want. If our minds are evil and
they want to possess us, they will manifest themselves.
So we must have Right View, dear fellow
practitioners. Therefore, saying that inviting
monks to chant scriptures alone will lead to the
liberation of the deceased is
also incorrect. Secondly, saying that
Buddha doesn't need money, just give the
monks a list, and they will read it, and the deceased will be
liberated – that's also a wrong view,
dear practitioners.  My fellow practitioners, why do we chant sutras? It's so that the
departed souls
understand the Buddha's teachings, that the Three Jewels are their refuge,
and that the family's actions and
offerings help the departed souls attain
liberation. They become enlightened, joyful, and
accept the offerings.
Do you understand, my dear practitioners? They joyfully receive the
merit of our offerings, and the departed
souls attain liberation. There's also
another type of hungry ghost: the kind that hears the
sutras and is liberated. That's the type of hungry
ghost that no longer suffers. They've become
somewhat enlightened, they've listened to the sutras
skillfully, so they just escape from one place to another, from
suffering to happiness, from happiness
to happiness, because
they hear the sutras and are just like us. Do you
understand this clearly, my dear practitioners?
Respectfully, my dear practitioners, those are the things
we need to contemplate
after chanting these two sutras.
We will open our minds and
our hearts will know how to show filial piety to our
deceased relatives, our parents from
past lives.  Just as our parents have passed away in
this life, our relatives in this life should be treated
truthfully so that their souls may
truly receive blessings, not be deluded.
We kill living beings, burn paper money,
we do a lot, we send it
to the souls, but they don't
receive it, they don't find any happiness there.
So here, the holy monks have
practiced as taught by the Buddha, the
sutras that the holy monks used to save their parents
in this life and previous lives. This
affirms that even holy monks
must do this, let alone ordinary people
like us who can't do otherwise, right, dear fellow practitioners? Dear fellow
practitioners, our meditation topic
follows the first topic: contemplating
past parents and relatives who may be
suffering pain, hunger, and
thirst in the realm of hungry ghosts and hell, as exemplified by the
suffering of the mother of Venerable Maudgalyayana and the
mother of Venerable Sariputta. The second topic is
contemplating that our present parents
may also fall into the realm of hungry
ghosts and hell and suffer the same, so that we may feel worry and
compassion.  The third contemplation
is to vow to obey the Buddha's teachings,
offering according to circumstances to create merit and dedicate it to our deceased
parents. If our parents have passed
away from this life
to countless past lives, that is, our past parents, then the
fourth contemplation is to wish to have the
merit to save our parents in this
life and in
past lives. Because
our offerings are only made according to circumstances, dear fellow
practitioners. Now we must vow to have
the merit to save our
parents in this life, our parents in
past lives, and our future parents
in future lives. The
fifth contemplation is to vow to diligently practice
Bodhicitta, diligently and harmoniously performing
Bodhicitta deeds to meet our parents from past lives, to
teach and guide them to practice the Buddha Dharma and
attain
liberation. That is the vow we, as Buddhist children,
must have. Because
we can use money to make offerings, use our
possessions to save our past parents,
but we can also cultivate
Bodhicitta and practice Bodhicitta deeds in
this present life for
many future lives.  If we have the karmic affinity to practice
Bodhisattva virtues, during the process of
practicing them,
we will meet our past parents
so that we can help them
awaken to the Buddha's teachings, cultivate Bodhicitta, and diligently practice
Bodhisattva virtues. That is how
those who cultivate Bodhicitta save their parents,
dear fellow practitioners. Just as our Buddha made
vows to practice the Bodhisattva path for countless lifetimes,
in those lifetimes he
saved his parents. So when
we read those sutras, we remember
what they were
to us in those past lives—you see, they
were our teacher, our brother, our
sister, or even
our parents. Through many
lifetimes like that, we can save them.
Therefore, we
must cultivate a strong and courageous mind,
practice Bodhisattva virtues, and only then can
we focus on the Bodhicitta mind and abide in it.
When we abide
in the Bodhicitta mind, we
can save our parents from
past lives, for example, the mind that illuminates the cycle of rebirth.
Together with our esteemed fellow practitioners,
it is possible that you, our esteemed fellow practitioners, were the
parents of the Pure Contemplation in
previous lives, right? That is a karmic connection.
Therefore, this is the karmic connection
we have for our Bodhisattva vows. When we make the Bodhi vow, we
truly practice the Bodhi virtues
in this present life, spreading the Dharma
throughout the world. This is the karmic connection to
save our parents from previous lives,
esteemed fellow practitioners, and possibly even our
parents in this life. Therefore, we
must make the
Bodhi vow, diligently practice the Six Harmonies, and diligently
practice the Bodhi virtues to
generate the karmic connection to save our parents, to
help our parents in
past lives enter the practice of Buddhism, and to
enter the stream of liberation, esteemed fellow practitioners.
So, this is a
great vow of filial piety, and we
must also have genuine actions right now, esteemed fellow
practitioners, according to
our abilities. Through the
Pure Contemplation, I wish our esteemed fellow practitioners to
diligently
practice the Buddha's teachings, save our
past parents with our own abilities,
make offerings to the Three Jewels, dedicate merit, and diligently cultivate
Bodhi.  Wishing all fellow practitioners a
peaceful and happy meditation session, filled with
merit and increased spiritual practice. Namo Great Bodhisattva Kieu Lien. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. [Music] [
Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
I